---
layout: post
title:  "Heroes"
date:   2017-01-20 12:00:00
categories: work
brief: "A Duet in Mixed Reality<br /><br />An Augmented Reality dance piece which premiered at the Sundance Film Festival as part of the New Frontiers program."
cover: heroes.jpg
other_images:
  - /images/720/heroes_d.jpg
  - /images/720/heroes_c.jpg
  - /images/720/heroes_b.jpg
  - /images/720/heroes_a.jpg
tags: [Unity, Hololens, Android, Kinect, AR, Event, Dance]
role: Technologist
---

<h1><small>A Duet in Mixed Reality</small></h1>

#### Overview
While using 2-D, virtual reality, and augmented reality headsets, become immersed in a fiercely athletic and romantic dance that permeates an extravagant movie palace where silent films were once shown. Melissa Painter and her key collaborators have crafted a multidimensional experience that lets you chase dancers around a pool and on stage, scale through a labyrinth of stunning architecture, and even reach out and hold the dancers in the palm of your hand. After the swirl of experience, you will find that you have accomplished a dance of your own.

The VR experience incorporates a dynamic, personal 360 video of the dance which travels around the iconic Ace Hotel in L.A.

The AR experience is built on extensive motion capture of the dance and detailed photogrammetry of the stunning Spanish Gothic architecture of the Ace Hotel. The dance and architecture is presented as dollhouse-scale vignettes around the room which you can interact with via movement and voice.
<br /><br />

#### Role & Responsibilities
I assisted as a developer on the project, primarily working on integration and networking for the AR (Hololens) experience.

There are moments in the AR experience where you can interact with the dancers with your hands. We wanted a more natural interaction than the Hololens provides. I created a system which uses a separate 3d camera in the room to track the audience's hands and allows them to "hold" the holographic dancers.

When this project premiered at Sundance, we needed to be able to be constantly showing the piece to people over the course of the one-week festival. This meant it was necessary to streamline device management, troubleshooting, and audience communication. I developed an Android app which would keep tabs on all the Hololens devices and let us know various system details such as which app was running and how much battery was left. It also showed us where in the experience the audience member was, so we could direct their attention to different parts of the room in case they got lost.
<br /><br />

#### Credits
* [Melissa Painter][mp] Creative Director
* [Thomas Wester][tw] Creative Technologist
* [Helios Dance Theater][hdt] Choreography and Dancers
* [Moving Picture Company][mpc] Motion Capture and VR

[tw]: http://thomaswester.com/
[hdt]: http://heliosdancetheater.org/
[mp]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/melissa-painter-9baa5814
[mpc]: http://www.moving-picture.com/
